ipynb_diff
==========

Generates code/files for each ipynb input script for human-readable diff viewing.

Purpose
-------

The intent of this project is for text-based diff-viewing.

This was raised by a concern of fellow ipython and jupyter notebook writers
with the fact that diff viewing can be a burden.

The generated code and files are the body and resources of an ipython notebook,
as converted with `nbconvert`. This tool wraps `nbconvert` in order to provide
higher-level functionality.

This tool is designed to be used in one of two ways: for diff changes to a
notebook on demand, or to install as a git commit hook and allow diffing the
files themselves.

For something even more advanced, see: https://nbdime.readthedocs.io/en/latest/

Requirements
------------

* Python >= 2.6
* nbconvert
* pandoc

Using virtualenv is optional but recommended to avoid system issues.

To install nbconvert, run:
```
pip install nbconvert
```

The pandoc universal document converter can be installed with:
```
brew install pandoc
```

Build
-----

This project is currently built as a source distribution:
```
python setup.py sdist
```

Install
-------

Once the sdist is built (see above), you can install it with pip:
```
pip install dist/ipynb_diff-1.0.0.dev1.tar.gz
```

_NOTE_: If you have not already pip-installed nbconvert, running that command will install it for you.

Usage
-----

Run from root with:
```
./ipynb_diff_cli
```

Help:
```
$ ./ipynb_diff_cli -h
usage: main.py [-h] [--output_dir OUTPUT_DIR] files [files ...]

positional arguments:
  files

optional arguments:
  -h, --help            show this help message and exit
  --output_dir OUTPUT_DIR
```

Example usage:
```
$ ./ipynb_diff_cli --output_dir example/ipynb_generated ./example/def_wikipedia_visualization.ipynb
```

See more in the `example/` directory.

Development
-----------

Setting up a virtualenv:
* I prefer: https://virtualenvwrapper.readthedocs.io/en/latest/
* Many people use: https://virtualenv.pypa.io/en/stable/

Installing the python requirements:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt
```

The requirements.txt file was originally generated by freezing nbconvert requirements:
```
pip install nbconvert
pip freeze > requirements.txt
```
